in general on this channel I don't like
to deal with controversy at the moment I
like to talk about issues in a way that
I'm going to find meaningful myself if I
come back and watch this video in the
future five years from now ten years
from now etc they are just as my
shoulder you can see a fresh durian and
two mangoes on the edge of my capable
wonder that before we Aronian alright we
have a fashion right now within the
digital vegan demi-monde of vegans
shutting down one another and vegans
shutting down meat eaters with formal
logical fallacies and in these videos
talking with us in the past some of
those videos ended up being deleted for
reasons not worth rehearsing here
talking about this problem alec field on
this problem is almost the perfect
inverse of something I dealt with but
two years ago on this channel I've given
a lot of advice for how vegans should
deal with hostile meteors in
conversations when meteors want to
confront you with very barbed questions
with questions that lead you into the
uncomfortable position of having to
discuss the details of the rates of
cancer and heart attack of a vegan diet
versus a meeting diet when they press
you on issues in a way that's ultimately
just cynical and trying to make you live
with a fool and doesn't express sincere
odors and learn more about veganism how
to actually respond to those those
questions and issues I feel that the
emphasis on formal logical fallacies
instead puts vegans in this cynical
position and puts the meat eaters in the
awful position of trying to have a
sincere conversation with a vegan who is
not really being sincere and open with
them right that's not the position I
want to be in in the pain even when
people are guilty of form of logical
fallacies I think it's really worth well
even if you note that if you say look
it's easy logical fallacy but now
setting that aside the next step for me
is I'm going to try to address your real
concern your real question or your real
objection despite the fact that you've
expressed it in a flawed way you've made
a mistake you basically made an error
stating it in a fallacious manner and
that takes just good faith and sincerity
and openness to hearing with the person
the other side the argument as say
there's a fallacy called the too-cool
quick foul see two quick ways Wikipedia
Latin the title of the Wikipedia article
a lot of people in British politics call
it what the what about fallacy or what
about ISM I've heard that used and there
are a lot of specific examples dealing
with Russia Russia versus the United
States and this use of this type of
fallacious reasoning to quickly fallacy
really is referring to someone who
cynically distracts you from the issue
that you want to really debate by
pointing to a spurious issue and saying
well you also are guilty of this
transgression or sin so in a situation
like Cambodia history of Cambodia
somebody might be sincerely trying to
talk about mass murder in political
violence in Cambodia and somebody else
may cynically comeback by saying well
what about this other example well here
you are talking about Cambodia what
about Indonesia here you are talking
about the United States and the
body-count they're responsible for in
the Vietnam War but you're not talking
about the Soviet Union and the
body-count that they're responsible for
in Afghanistan right it is a fallacy and
it can be used cynically it can be used
angrily it can't be used to just try to
derail the conversation but even so I
think the mature and correct thing to do
you can note it because it will look
this is a too quickly fallacy however I
understand your point I understand your
concern and I understand the question
rising and then just move right on to
treat the substance of this conversation
seriously what good does it do to shut
someone down and snub them and say this
is a formal logical fallacy because even
though it is a fallacy they're probably
expressing a real concern in a somewhat
flawed form their real concern might be
that you're employing a double standard
that you're not holding Cambodia to the
same standard you would hold Indonesia
to and asking why and that's that's a
reasonable question even if it stayed in
unreasonable way and if somebody did
that to me and I've been in situations
like that of a lot of experience talking
about very tense political issues from
Cambodia to Canada whether talking about
First Nations forced assimilation
government policy against First Nations
very tense issue in Canada talking with
history of Cambodia district China
history of Russia or what have you
upload experience less conversation but
it's actually it's really magnanimous
and useful and moves the conversation
forward to say back to someone okay I
understand the point you're trying to
make you can even just suggest the
inspirations okay so I think what you're
asking about really is this what you're
really asking is are we holding Cambodia
to an unreasonable standard compared to
how we treat other countries with a
similar level of political violence is
Cambodia facing a different set of
consequences a different you know a
different set of criteria from Indonesia
Afghanistan and again in the Toba
Vietnam war or something are we holding
the United States to a different
standard than we would hold the Soviet
Union to etc so those questions may be
worth asking it may be worth reflecting
on even if they're introduced in the
conversation in the form of a tuple a
fallacy of a formal logical fallacy
right if you're in a conversation with
somebody and you're not willing in that
sense to give them the benefit of the
doubt you're not willing to say okay
I I'm willing to assume that you're
trying to make a reasonable point that
you're you're trying to ask a meaningful
question why you having the conversation
at all you know are these actually
debates people are having or he just is
this just you know a new genre of
YouTube entertainment of two sides
trying to show who can be more cynical
and mean-spirited than the other you
know I was talking recently to one of my
fellow vegans and the level of malice I
get from other vegans
meat eaters in general don't treat me
that bad I got to tell you I'm starting
to another vegan who was supposed to be
setting up a Skype conversation with me
and you know he was telling me what he
found offensive on my channel and I
think he's really not capable
understanding that I was not trying to
prove him wrong I wasn't trying to say
no objectively this material of God
isn't offensive I was really just
interested in hearing his perspective
hearing his
right here and why he found this
material oh that's it they're going to
talk it through a bit and we were doing
it by email because I wanted to get out
of the way before we recorded the
podcast and he said explicitly he did
not want that type of conversation
happened during the buggers Oh fair
enough so let's talk about an Alva email
and then during the podcast we won't
have any of this step on the table and
one of any of this stuff onto the table
it'll be it'll be taken care of um I
said to them okay look this material you
find offensive on my channel I I
understand that some people would find
it offensive but what I can't understand
is why you would find a defensive given
that you don't find similar material
offensive or much worse material
offensive when during writer does it
you've been a fan of during writer for
many many years and much more harsh much
more castigating much more insulting
material on during writers Channel you
don't find offensive but you're telling
me you really do find a defense of
myself so why is that can we talk about
that you know and I don't really even
have any agenda I'm not really trying to
prove them wrong but to me that is worth
talking about it is a question of why
are you holding me and why are you
holding during writer to two very
different standards and for me that
conversation doesn't have to end with
one side being writer or the other side
being right from the employee path you
just communicated look I'm being honest
you I went back and watch this video
mine again that you're complaining about
I watched what I had to say about this
again because you've complained to me
about it and I honestly do not find it
offensive I do not find my own video
offensive and while I can understand
that somebody would I can't understand
why you do so I'm just trying to find
that out I'm machete Sinfonia and you
respond to this by accusing me of a to
Colquitt fallacy and just trying to shut
me down and then when I explained no I
actually do not believe that is a to
culpability I don't know if asking a
question can be a to quote a fallacy or
trying to engage someone in again
another logical concept that seems to be
out of fashion within these right now is
Socratic method Socratic method in some
ways gets its work shoes are exaggerated
and its vices are also exaggerated it
sort of strange how many perceptions and
misperceptions or of what's great myth
is and
and what it means but Socratic method
would be a lot better with all its flaws
with all its shortcomings Socratic
method would be a lot better than what I
see going on under the name of Reason
under the name of logic because what I
see is people who employ the concept of
reason with a capital R while actually
being very unreasonable I see no real
openness to dealing with the dealing
with the topic being discussed or
understanding what the other person's
perspective is and in many of these
conversations if these are between these
who's a witness mechanism there's
nothing to win and there's nothing to
lose for me the objective of the
conversation is precisely just mutual
understanding it's just for me to
understand what that person's
perspective is where they're coming from
why the company and so in this
conversations another vegan youtuber
lately he completely missed the point
when I said to it look I don't want you
to apologize he said to me repeatedly he
assumed that my purpose in this debate
of this conversation was to try to force
him to make a public apology I said no
no I'm not sure did at all but he said a
couple of times but were they really
explicitly he said he assumed that he
assumed that I wanted to present him
with a specific list of exactly what he
said in which videos and how long he is
why he's wrong for these things why
should as a note that's not what I'm
trying to do I'm really positively in an
open mind away just trying to understand
what your perspective is so we can move
on you know so we can do this podcast
and not have this stuff you know clutter
girth budgets not have any kind of
compliments I'm actually interested in
just hearing its perspective although
what you had to say was for my
perspective amazingly stupid and
dishonest and his mean mostly Keisha
with me was to choose me again ergative
dishonesty was like how can I possibly
be more honest on this issue I've given
up I'm dumbing it down as much as I can
for this guy I'm being as honest and
direct as I can for this guy but the
truth is his perspective the issues it
wasn't just stupid and it wasn't just
crazy
it was also paranoid and I have dealt
with that before talking to vegans a
paranoia means many people think
paranoia is only a kind of Hollywood
movie stare
type of how actors portray parent line
but when you talk to someone and they
feel manipulated and lied to when you're
saying something so straightforward
right like I'm just saying to him
directly look I went back and watch this
video again because you complained about
it I don't find it offensive I don't
understand what you do let's talk as how
can I be more honest than that you know
this is not being manipulative as I
think it's honest just setting this area
if you want to deal with it but a
paranoid frame of mind is exactly firm
about that that responds to that with
the kind of fear to think is basically
rooted in a sense of weakness that this
person feels you're manipulating them
feels you're doing something dishonest
and misleading even one from my
perspective I'm laying my cards flat on
the table and just saying hey here's the
situation here's the source of tension
between us let's talk um my recent
experience in talking to idiots really
has soured me on reaching out to other
vegans on YouTube they asked you I mean
as I said before on this channel you got
to keep an open heart and open mind you
got to get your heart broken and then
reach out to people again again I'm
still still to this day I'm trying to
invite dom Bauer to come on this channel
and do a podcast we trying to arrange a
podcast for a year that dom Bauer appear
on a ballot ciel hasn't happened yet I
guess it's been more than here I don't
know um you know uh but as came up in my
conversation with was vegan revolution
that's nothing new to this channel are
we chats people time which has a really
small channels reach out to medium size
and big channels and say look I think
there are important issues of the Venus
to talk about let's talk but the truth
is I do have a kind of criterion but I
think I have to enforce more strictly
for whether or not I'm going to talk to
somebody and that is are they planning
are they aspiring to do something
positive for the future the vegan
movement in the next five years and I
got to tell you this this vegan
youtubers just argue now he really
doesn't I think you can see from the
conclusion of my my video we did with
vegan revolution the guy uses the name
vegan revolution he's not going to do
anything revolutionary he's not going to
do anything for veganism as a movement
in the next five years so you know big
or small you know if someone's totally
unknown and totally not on YouTube I
think that is basically now the
criterion fu is where I'm not going to
talk to people
I'm not going to reach out to people and
I'm going to reply to people if there's
no possibility there of them doing
something positive for veganism no
they're not even planning or aspiring or
hoping to because a lot of us are in
circumstances I am right now or you
can't do anything right now or you're
looking around and planning and doing
the research and look at the options you
may not have good options right now but
if that aspiration do something positive
isn't there I just I just don't see why
I should tolerate you know what I've
been getting back from see one look I
mean obviously there's also built on
negative experiences people like vegan
cheetah and during writer himself I've
been through so much of this and it's a
very simple question but deserves to be
asked of vegan cheetah AB durianrider
of many of these other channels what are
you planning to do in the next five
years and almost any positive answer is
worth listening to it's worth responding
to is worth debating and it may
influence others right I had some
contact lately with just some Facebook
messages back and forth with Joey carb
strong you know and he said the simplest
thing but it's such a positive attitude
to have
Joey carb strong his channel was very
different from mine his approach is very
different than mine and in the past he
was during writers support and I was not
Joey Krebs from you know wrote to me or
replied to me and he just said look you
know your channel is so different for
mine but I think that's great because we
need different kinds of channels for
different types of people we need
veganism we need vegan activism being
presented to the public in with myriad
different strategies different tactics
different packages even you know
different philosophies because veganism
is a message that needs to reach all
kinds of different people and for anyone
who's engaged in any kind of activism
I mean look up to a point you know I
don't believe in violence and I've
really been lying to the public there
all kinds of things that from your hard
limits where I don't accept the
movement is as legitimate if it crosses
those are limits but sure I mean I you
know that's fundamentally a very
positive attitude state which is look I
may not understand you I mean understand
where you come from I may not appreciate
your content I may not be a fan of your
channel I mean on a cure god that etc
but I can recognize we need a diversity
of voices because we're reaching the
world's most diverse audience we're not
just reaching vegans who are incredibly
diverse group of people we're also
reaching all the previous the people who
are meat-eaters today but who might
contribute positively to this movement
in future and shutting someone down in
mid-sentence and saying that's a logical
fallacy snubbing some of them I just
don't see how that can ever really be a
positive tool in our toolbox in these
kinds of difficult conversations and
negotiations